Software Engineer
Req ID:  110241
Department:  Tech Wholesale & Enterprise Delivery (NZ)
Division:  Technology
Location:  New Zealand
Ko Mātou – About Us
Kia Hanga I Te Ao, E Ora Ai, E Tupu Ai, Te Tangata Me Te Kainga. At ANZ, we’re shaping a world where people and communities thrive, driven by a common goal: to improve the financial wellbeing and sustainability of our millions of customers.

Mō te tūranga - About the role
ANZ’s Payments systems support the processing of both Domestic and Cross Border payments, forming a critical part of how the bank enables customers to move money safely and reliably. These platforms require continuous monitoring, thoughtful management and a strong focus on stability, resilience and performance to ensure transactions are executed seamlessly at scale.

 

As an Engineer in Payments Technology NZ, you will contribute to a wide range of development and delivery initiatives that strengthen ANZ’s payments capability. The role focuses on maintaining and enhancing systems that underpin International and Domestic transactions, with an emphasis on reliability, security and operational excellence. Your work will directly support ANZ’s commitment to delivering safe, secure and dependable payment experiences for customers.

 

 

Role Location: This role can be based in Wellington or Auckland. Let us know what works for you.

Role Type: Permanent

Hours: Standard 37.5 hours per week

Ka aha tō rā e kite ai? - What will your day look like
You will be responsible for:

 

Continuously improving processes, tools, strategy and ways of working across infrastructure and system engineering
Contributing to the design and development of Payments NZ solutions, using your technical expertise to support sound engineering decisions
Responding to production incidents, carrying out analysis and diagnostics to assess impact, identify root cause and restore service
Providing primary and secondary after‑hours support for incidents as part of Level 2 support
Orchestrating and configuring systems to safely implement change
Ensuring software is delivered successfully in line with ANZ’s agreed software development lifecycle
Managing pre‑production and production environments, including access provisioning and environment changes
Maintaining clear and up‑to‑date documentation relating to access management and environment controls
Supporting payments delivery activities across the full SDLC, including the tools used throughout
Working closely with other teams to support integration and end‑to‑end testing
Ōu Pūkenga? - What will you bring?
To thrive and excel in this role, you should ideally possess the following:

 

Experience in systems engineering and or software development
Hands‑on experience working with Java and SQL technologies
Familiarity with source code and artefact repositories such as GitHub, Bitbucket and Artifactory
Comfortable navigating ambiguity and adapting within a fast‑moving, evolving environment
A solid awareness of computer security principles, including technologies such as SSL
Exposure to payments systems, or a strong curiosity and motivation to learn how payments operate end to end
An understanding of core infrastructure concepts including DNS, Linux, virtualisation and clustering
Confidence contributing technical insights to support sound decision‑making
A thoughtful, problem‑solving approach when working through complex system issues
A collaborative mindset, with the ability to work effectively alongside diverse technology teams
 

You’re not expected to have 100% of these skills. At ANZ a growth mindset is at the heart of our culture, so if you have most of these things in your toolbox, we’d love to hear from you.

He aha te take e uru ai koe ki a mātou? - So, why join us?
 

From the moment you join ANZ, you'll be part of a work whānau striving towards a common purpose: shaping a world where communities thrive.  

 

But it's not just our customers who'll feel your impact. You'll feel it too. Because at ANZ, you'll have the resources, opportunities, and community you need to take the next big step in your career.  

 

We're a diverse community at ANZ in different roles, different locations, doing different things. That's why we have a range of flexible working arrangements, so our people can 'make work, work for them'. We also provide a range of benefits including access to wellbeing services and discounts on selected products and services from ANZ and more.    

 

At ANZ you'll be part of an organisation where the different backgrounds, perspectives and life experiences of our people are celebrated. That's because we're committed to building a workplace that reflects the diversity of Aotearoa New Zealand's communities and this is one of the reasons that has inspired us to develop a multi-year Te Ao Māori Strategy called Tākiri-Ā-Rangi. This includes increasing representation of Māori and Pasifika people at ANZ. Join us and get involved in one of our affinity networks which help us to better understand and meet the needs and interests of our increasingly diverse workforce.

 

Kua wātea te katoa ki te tono. We welcome applications from everyone and encourage you to talk to us about any adjustments you may require to our recruitment process or the role itself. If you are a candidate with an access requirement or disability, let us know how we can provide you with additional support.  

 

To find out more about working at ANZ visit https://www.anz.co.nz/careers/.You can apply for this role by visiting ANZ Careers and searching for reference number 110241.